# Chapter 20 - NIO.2
- NIO = Non-blocking Input/Output API
- allows us to do a lot more with files and directories than the original java.io API

### Introducing NIO.2
- NIO.2 is a replacement for the legacy java.io.File class 
- more intuitive, more feature-rich API for working with files and directories
- The NIO.1 API was never popular and is not on the exam. 

### Path
- java.nio.file.Path interface
- A path instance represents a hierarchical path on the storage system to a file or directory
- Path in NIO.2 is sort of a replacement for java.io.File
- Just like java.io.File, relative or absolute path
- Just like java.io.File, file or directory
- Unlike java.io.File, Path interface contains support for symbolic links.
- defn: symbolic link: special file within a file system that serves as a reference or pointer to another file or directory.
- Files (plural!) operates on Path instances, not File instances. 

### Creating Paths
- Since Path is an interface, we can't instantiate it directly.
    - Path.of(String first, String... more)
        * static factory method
        * varargs to pass additional path elements. If varargs, then path = varargs.joining("/")
- Paths class
    - Paths plural is a utility class
    - Paths.get(String first, String... more)
        * same vararg joining rules
- URI object
- defn: URI - Uniform resource identifier
    - URI constructor
        * new URI(String str)
    - Converting URI -> Path
        * Path.of(URI uri)
        * Paths.get(URI uri)
        * pathInstance.toURI()
- FileSystem abstract and FileSystems utility class
    - FileSystems.getDefault()
        * returns FileSystem 
    - fileSystemInst.getPath(String first, String... more)
    - connecting to other file System
        * .getFileSystem(URI uri)
- Path from java.io.File
    - pathInstance.toFile()
        * returns File
    - fileInstance.toPath()
        * returns Path

        
### Applying Path Symbols
- defn: path symbol - reserved series of characters that have special meaning with some file systems.
- "."  - current directory
- ".." - parent of current directory

### Providing Optional Arguments
- Many of the methods in this chapter include a varargs that takes an optional list of values
- Enum Type - LinkedOption, StandardCopyOption, StandardOpenOption, FileVisitOption
- Table page 978

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Paths
- Path instances are immutable 
- Many of the methods available in Path interface transform the path instance and return a new Path object (like String). 

### Path methods
- retrieving basic info
    * toString()
        * returns a string representation of the entire path
    * getNameCount()
        * number of directories/file in path (not including root directory `/` as part of the path)
    * getName(int index)
        * get the ith directory/file in the path
        * Doesn't include root. .getName(0) throws IllegalArgumentException
- Creating a new Path
    * .subpath(int beginIndex, int endIndex)
        * Returns a portion of a Path as a new Path instance
        * 0-indexed and does not include root. Index must be in range or else IllegalArgument
        * `[beginIndex, endIndex)` // exclusive
        * `Path.of("/a/b/c/d/e").subPath(0.3)` // "a/b/c"
- Accessing Path Elements
    * getFileName()
        * returns the Path element of the current file or directory
    * getParent()
        * returns the full path of the containing directory
        * returns null if called on root or at the top of a relative path
    * getRoot()
        * returns root element of file within the file system or null if the path is a relative path
- Checking Path Type
    * isAbsolute()
        * returns true if the path the object references is absolute. false if relative
    * toAbsolutePath()
        * converts relative Path object to an absolute Path object by joining it to the cwd. if already absolute, return this
- Joining Paths
    * resolve(Path otherPath)
    * resolve(String other)
    * concatenate paths 
    * does not clean up path symbols
    * Intelligently mixes absolute paths. Does not just simply concatenate 
- Deriving a path
    * relativize()
        - constructing the relative path from one Path to another, often using path symbols
        - Exactly what we do with Xpath with Selenium.
        - Can't mix relative and absolute paths, both must match, else IllegalArgumentException
- Cleaning up a path
    * normalize()
        - eliminate unnecessary redundancies in a path
        - Doesn't eliminate all path symbols, only redundant path symbols
- Retrieving the File System Path
    - toRealPath()
        * toRealPath(LinkOption... option)
        * Returns an absolute path from the current path object by eliminating redundant path symbols (../.)
        * Throws exception if the path does not exist 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Operating on Files and Directories
- The Files helper class is capable of interacting with real files and directories within the system.
- Most of the methods take optional params and throw IOException if the path does not exist.
- Files class also replicates numerous methods in java.io.File
- Files operators on path objects, not File objects like the naming plural convention might suggest

### Files Methods
- All of these methods declare IOException (except exists())
- Checking for Existence
    * .exists()
        * checks whether the file exists
- Testing Uniqueness 
    * .isSameFile()
        * boolean isSameFile(Path path, Path path2)
        * return true if two paths are same file(or directory!)
        * follows symbolic links
- Making Directories
    * .createDirectory()
        * Path createDirectory(Path dir, FileAttribute<?>... attrs)
        * create a directory
        * throws exception if already exists or the paths leading up to the directory do not exist
    * .createDirectories()
        * Path createDirectories(Path dir, FileAttribute<?>... attrs)
        * creates a directory along with any nonexistent parent directories leading up to the path
- Copying Files
    * .copy()
        * `Path copy(Path source, Path target, CopyOptions... options)`
        * copy file or directory from one location to another
        * shallow copy
        * By Default, if target already, copy() with throw an exception. Else, StandardCopyOption.REPLACE_EXISTING.
        * `long copy(InputStream in, Path target, CopyOptions... options)`
            * reads the contents of a stream and writes the output to a file
        * `long copy(Path source, OutputStream out)`
            * reads the contents of a file and writes the output to a stream.
- defn: shallow copy - files and subdirectories with the directory are not copied
- defn: deep copy - the entire tree is copied, including all of its content and subdirectories
- Moving or Renaming Paths
    - .move()
        * Path move(Path source, Path target, CopyOption... options)
        * moving or renaming files/directories. Atomic move 
- Deleting a File
    * .delete()
        * throws exception if path does not exist
    * .deleteIfExists()
        * Returns true if file exists and was deleted.
    * directories must be empty to be deleted
    * if the path is a symbolic link, only the symbol is deleted. 
- Reading and Writing Data
    * newBufferedReader()
    * newBufferedWriter()
    * Two convenient methods 
    * overloaded with option to supply Charset parameter
- Replacing a File
    * .readAllLines()
        * `List<String> readAllLines(Path path)`
        * Returns a list of lines
        * If the file is huge, OutOfMemoryError 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Managing File Attributes
- defn: file attributes - file/directory metadata
- size, visibility, etc.
- methods
    * .isDirectory()
    * .isSymbolicLink()
    * isRegularFile()
        * defn: regular file - file that can contain content, as opposed to a  symbolic link, directory, resource
        * follows symbolic links
    * .isHidden()
    * .isReadable()
    * .isWritable()
    * .isExecutable()
    * .size()
        * size of the file in bytes
        * undefined for directories
    * .getLastModifiedTime()
        * returns a `FileTime` object (which represents a timestamp)
        * FileTime.toMillis() for epoch time
    
### Improving Attribute Access
- Retrieving attributes one at a time is slow. NIO2 provides a way of getting all file attributes for directories.
- defn: view - group of related attributes for a particular file system type.
- readAttributes
    * `readAttributes(Path path, Class<A> type, LinkOptions... Options)`
    * getFileAttributeView()

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Applying Functional Programming 
- file operations with `Stream<T>` api methods
- Streams of Paths need to be closed 

### Files::list
- `Files.list()` is `ls` and is similar to java.io.File::listFiles , but different return type (`Stream<Path>` vs File[])
- `Stream<Path> list(Path dir)`
- List the contents of a directory

### Traversing a Directory Tree
- defn: Traversing a directory, aka walking a directory tree, is the process over recursively iterating of descendants 
- NIO.2 Streams API methods us depth-first searching (not BFS!) with a depth limit. 
- two methods
    * .walk(Path start, FileVisitOption... options)
    * .walk(Path start, int maxDepth, FileVisitOption... options)
    * default maximum depth is `Integer.MAX_VALUE`. depth = 0 means just the cwd
- Symbolic links can cause tree traversal to have loop/cycle
- FileVisitOption.FOLLOW_LINKS defaults to false
- .find()
    * similar to .walk() , but takes a predicate to filter the data
- .lines()
    * similar to .readAllLines(), but returns a `Stream<String>`
    * solves the memory issues that .readAllLines has since streams are lazy evaluated






---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

















